Book 1

The word φόρος is used  in the singular to mean the whole tribute for that year while the plural is used to mean discrete payments made by individual allies. In 1.99.1 the plural is used (in the genitive:τῶν φόρων).

There is an important distinction between the use of the word χρῆμα, money, and the word φόρος, tribute, in Thucydides. In 1.99.3 he says, χρήματα ἐτάξαντο ἀντὶ τῶν νεῶν τὸ ἱκνούμενον ἀνάλωμα φέρειν. The word ἐτάξαντο here can be translated as "arranged" and it has the sense that the allies who no longer wished to pay in ships negotiated with the Athenians. This use of τάσσω in the middle voice conveys that they made arrangements for their own benefit. This usage parallels the header on the second stele that reads "πολεῖς αὐταί ταξάμεναι." Perhaps the poles under this heading previously contributed ships?

But this negotiation seems like it is only referring to those allies which were originally assessed to contribute ships. In 1.96 Thucydides states that the Athenians determined which would contribute ships and which money.The same verb τάσσω is used here (ἔταξαν)in the aorist, showing that it was the Athenians that decided how the allies would contribute to the league, not the allies themselves. It is only later that the Athenians were willing to negotiate with those allies assessed to contribute ships. But since the word χρῆμα is used, they were not necessarily contributing tribute. 

Instead, their contributions could have gone to a separate Athenian naval fund devoted to maintaining the triremes and paying the sailors. This fund would not have been sacred and therefore would probably have been recorded on a more temporary material instead of stone. This is more consistent with the Athenians' initial assessment. They decided who needed to make naval contributions and who needed to make monetary contributions. When the allies arranged to pay money instead of ships, they could still be making a naval contribution consistent with the initial decision. 


In 1.101.3 the distinction between money and tribute is further highlighted. They paid the χρήματά at once and agreed to bring more later.
Is the translation in the Landmark edition true to the Greek? "arranging to pay the moneys demanded at once, and tribute in the future" (p.55)




Book 2

The amount assessed and the amount paid do not necessarily need to be identical in order to be correct. Thucydides uses the phrase ἐπὶ πολύ to modify the annual revenue from the allies. LSJ translates this as “very generally" "for the most part" and it is very similar to the phrase used by the Old Oligarch to describe how often tribute was re-assessed. 

This approximate phrasing may be due to partial and late payments. 
